---
layout: post
title: Z
date: 2020-05-26 15:48:00 +0000

---
As Aristotle once observed, **“Knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.”** If you make an effort to become aware of your weaknesses you can, at the very least, begin to address them.¹

I don’t think it’s a secret to anyone who’s met me that – as my grandmother use to say – “I like the sound of my own voice.”

When I’m mentoring a learner in an office hours session, I’ll barely pause for breath, because **I’m trying to get across as much information as possible in a short space of time**.

However…

One of the skills of a truly great teacher is **the ability to listen**, so that’s something I’m working on. **Like any skill it takes time and practice to master.**

On that note, while researching my previous essay on [language][01], I was delighted to discover Einstein’s formula for success in life:

> A = X+Y+Z

In 1929, Samuel Johnson Woolf interviewed Einstein for The New York Times Magazine. Einstein’s formula for life emerged as a by-product if that interview. As Woolf noted:

> It was time for me to go and as he saw me to the door **I asked him what he considered the best formula for success in life**. He smiled, that same awkward bashful smile and thought for a minute.  
>   
> “If A is success in life,” he replied, “**I should say the formula is A = X+Y+Z**, X being work and Y being play.” “And what,” I asked, “is Z?”  
>   
> **“That,” he answered, “is keeping your mouth shut.”**

It’s fair to say that I’m working on Z (and I suspect I always will be).

Metadata: 1590511680 · 54.705140, -6.178487

1. You’re doubtless aware of some of your weaknesses, but there will also be weaknesses that you **aren’t** aware of. If you’re to grow as an individual it’s important to identify those weaknesses so you can begin to address them.  
     
   A [360° Review][02] is a useful tool to help you pinpoint the areas that you need to work on.  
     
   In 2008, whilst undertaking a postgraduate programme at Belfast School of Art, I had to undertake a 360° Review and the lessons I learned about myself were fascinating.  
     
   A dozen years later I’m still working on the weaknesses I identified. Had I not undertaken the 360° Review I wouldn’t even have been aware of those weaknesses, let alone started working on them.

[01]: https://www.mrmurphy.org/2020/05/25/a-win-vs.a-negative-net-present-value.html "Language matters."
[02]: https://hbr.org/2012/09/getting-360-degree-reviews-right "Getting 360 Degree Reviews Right"